We're going to introduce an important concept
called resolved rate motion control. It sounds
complex but its really quite simple to understand.
For a lot of real world problems, we might
be interested in the robot end effector moving
along a straight line in Cartesian space.
Now we know that if we move, for instance,
joint angle 1, we move joint angle 2, then
the end of the robot tends to move in arcs
in space. We don't want it to move in arcs.
We want it to move along a straight a line.
So we began to specify the Cartesian velocity
that we want the end effector to follow. We want to convert that then to the required joint velocity.
We already touched on this. We take the desired
velocity nu, we multiply it by the inverse
Jacobian and we get the joint velocity that
we need. We compute that inverse Jacobian,
we can write it out symbolically as I had
done here. Now what I need to do is have the
robot's hardware move the joints at this desired
velocity. But after the robot's been moving
for a short period, the joint angle vector
Q will have changed so that that Jacobian
that I've computed will no longer be appropriate.
So what I need to do then is periodically
update the Jacobian matrix. And use that when
I'm computing the desired robot velocity vector
Qdot. So it's a matter of moving the robot
joints, updating the Jacobian, computing the
robot joint velocity, moving the joints, updating
the Jacobian and so on. Repeat this indefinitely.
Most control algorithms that run on a digital
computer a typically discrete time algorithms.
That is they compute things at discrete time
intervals. So here we have a time line and
we indicated a number of time steps. Time
1, time 2, time 3 and so on . The duration
of these time steps, I’m going to denote
by the symbol delta T. It might be 1/10 of
a second it might be a thousandth of a second.
Something like that. At every time step what
I'm going to do is to take the current value
of the joint angles and call that QK. That
stands for joint angles at the time K.
To compute the Jacobian, take the inverse,
multiply it by the velocity that I want to
achieve and compute the Qdot that I need to
achieve at this particular time step. What
I'm going to do is take that joint velocity
Qdot I'm going to multiply it by delta T so
that will give me a joint angle displacement;
that is how much I would want the joints to
move over the coming time interval.
I add that to the current value of the joint
angles QK. And that gives me the robot’s
target. That's where I want the robot joint
angles to be at time K +1. Then I tell the
robot hardware to move the joints to this
new joint angle configuration over the time
interval delta T. And then I'll repeat this
steps for as long as necessary.